Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about the variable function scope and the variable block scope.
All right, so what is the variable function scope so out of this like phrase, we know two of the words,
we know what a variable is, we know what a function is, and we don't know what a scope is.
Well, I'm going to tell you what scope its scope specifies, where the defined variable is accessible.
That's how simple it is.
So scope is responsible for defining, for accessing actually variables and where we can access variables,
variables which are defined, of course.
So let's go ahead and let's talk about the variable functions.
Go first and then we are going to talk about the variable block scope.
All right.
So we have three variable declarations in JavaScript.
And briefly, we have talked about them and we have let we have cons and we have right now we have talked
about lean on cons, but we have not like really talked about the VA variable declaration.
OK, variable declaration.
All right.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create a function because we are
talking about the function scope and I'm going to call it my function.
And this is going to be a very, very simple one.
And I'm going to say, let my name be equal to Muslim.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to call this function first so this function gets up and running.
So now the function is called.
Right.
But keep in mind in here that this variable has been defined inside this function.
All right.
So because we are talking about the function scope, the scope is actually the scope is defined by these
curly braces.
So whatever is inside this curly brace is going to be the scope of this function.
Think of it as the territory of that function.
So let's see if now this variable has been defined by let let's see if we can access that variable outside
the function.
So we are going to say cancel that log and we are going to say my name and let's save it.
And now I see in here we see uncaught reference error.
We cannot reference this variable.
My name is not defined at line number 11.
And this concept, that log is available online.
No.
So whenever we define a variable inside a function, we cannot access it outside that function, whenever
that variable is defined by that.
So this is not accessible outside the function because the scope is limited to this function.
We can define we can't access it inside this at this function itself, but we cannot access it outside
the function.
So if I say that you guys can see it says from line number nine, we have Mussen and we have successfully
accessed the variable inside the function, but we cannot access it outside the function.
So this is how we can use that.
And this is the scope of let right the scope.
Flett within the function.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead.
I'm going to commented out and I'm going to create here just a comment that says, let now let's go
ahead and let's grab everything and put it here and change it to const.
Because I want to show you what the difference is actually between let on Consed and Vare, so it's
actually a battle.
I'm just going to say let that come a contest versus vare.
This is actually a battle of and cost versus far right and why we don't use VA anymore.
So if I were to save this, I'm just going to comment that we are going to get the same error that says
reference error.
My name is not defined at line number twenty four.
So this is line number twenty four.
So even so, now let's go ahead and change it to CONSED actually and the error is going to be the same.
So even if the variable is defined using const, we don't have access to it outside the function.
Right.
So it's the same thing as with Let which is not like.
Surprising.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to do the same thing with VA and I'm going to grab this concert
and the other one, I'm going to change them to VA and I'm going to comment back in this function.
And you guys can see we we get the same error.
Even though this variable has been declared with VA, it's we have successfully grabbed it or accessed
it within that function.
But outside the function on line 30, we cannot access it, says reference error.
My name is not defined at this line.
Right.
So so far as far.
So what is the result of this entire discussion?
So whenever we are talking about the variable function, so there is no difference between declaring
between ilet a concept and inva, aside from the fact that we cannot redeclared constant variables.
Aside from that fact, there is no difference between these three variable declaration methods.
So there is no difference.
So where does the difference arise?
Why we don't use VA anymore?
So one of the reasons is that is when whenever we talk about the block scope.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to post it here.
And instead of the function, I'm going to say block SQL.
Now, blocks are denoted by the curly braces.
I'm just going to put in a set of curly braces here.
And these curly braces, they are different than objects, right?
This represents a block var is function skoch other than being declared in functions var doesn't have
any other scope in.
How do we know that.
So we know that whenever we define a function var performs well.
How about when we don't have a function where we have an if statement because if statements have blocks
as well.
Right.
So let's go ahead and let's first off, take a look at the let in, we are going to create an if statement
and I'm going to use our comparison and logical operators at the same time.
And I'm going to say, if one two is greater than one and one is less than three, if this condition
is met, then what do we want to do?
We want to say let result because we want to capture the results.
Right, we want to say the results should be true, right?
And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to do one concert log inside the block scope of this if statement,
and I'm going to grab the result.
And I'm going to do the same oops, not to the same block outside of it.
So now if I say that we get two results, it says line thirty seven and nine thirty nine.
So on line online 37, we have successfully access the results variable because they are on in the same
scope.
The scope is the block of the if statement.
This is the scope.
So you guys can see this is the scope, this is the scope of the statement, the scope that I've just
highlighted.
And when they are in the same scope, of course they are accessible.
But what if we are try to access it outside that block scope?
We can't, because the good thing about Leadon in is that they are specific to their scope.
It doesn't matter whether the scope is function, the scope is any other block available, even if it
is a if statement for a loop.
It doesn't matter what that is.
They are not accessible outside their scope.
All right, so this is the good thing about Leron concert, and whenever we get to the VA part, I'm
going to tell you why this is a good thing.
So let's go ahead and let's copy this and common this one out.
Come here.
And we are going to say concert and pasted down here and we are going to change the led to a concert.
And when we save it, we get the exact same error.
We get a we get a true for a result of this concert along and for accessing that variable outside the
scope we get an error reference.
Error result is not defined at line forty six.
So what if when I do this with var, what happens then.
I'm going to grab this concert, I'm going to change both of them to var let's come in this one out.
And when I say that we get true and true now what does this mean if I go ahead and if I come and tell
the concert of lock there.
This comes from line 53 and this is line fifty three.
And now you guys can see that whenever the scope is not functions go, but any other scope or block
scope.
The VA variable declaration is accessible and this is not a good thing.
And why is that?
Why is this not a good thing.
Because let's say you are creating a very, very large application and it is very hard to keep up with
the variable names that you're defining.
So if you go ahead and if you apply, if you like, let's say you have another variable that has the
same name of result.
And when you access it, which one will you be able to access?
So what I'm going to do in here, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create another variable, which
is result.
And let's go ahead and let's see what happens.
And I'm going to set it to 15.
And when I do that, you guys can see this variable result of 15 has not been shown in here.
Right.
And even though we are, we are logging to the console.
The result, because this is this comes before this one.
All right.
So this is ignored.
But if you were to do this with Aulet or CONST, it would immediately tell you that this variable has
been defined before.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's do this with a with something other than war.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come back on this one back end and we are going to.
Do this and let's let's come here and let's say let results equal to 25, let's save it.
And now you guys can see we have two different consulates.
The first log comes from line number thirty eight and the second console comes from line number forty.
And this result comes from here.
It doesn't come from here.
Right.
Because this silhouette is defined, is limited or restrained to the scope of this statement.
So outside the scope of this if statement, this result does not exist.
That's why it through an error when we consider log it.
All right, so in conclusion, we have a function scope, we have a block scope, we have a global scope.
Whenever you casually define variables outside any remaining scope, they are defined in the global
scope.
All right.
And we also have a lexical scope, which is a bit advanced, and we are going to get to it when we get
to our advanced chapters.
Right.
So this is the difference between Leron consulate cost and VA, and this is why we don't use VA anymore,
because VA has only a function scope.
So as long as you use VARs with functions, that is cool.
But what if you want to use VA with if statements or with any other block scope, then it is going to
mess up your entire application in case there was a conflict of variable names.
All right, that's it for this.
Let's see you guys in the next one.